# Miscellaneous utilities

Here are some utilities that I've written out of need. Several of them depend on each other or other common software; dependencies are noted below. Brief descriptions follow; precise documentation, where it exists, is in the programs themselves.

See the individual programs for their licenses; most of them are GPLed, while a couple of trivial ones are placed in the public domain.

The Lua scripts need the [stdlib Lua libraries](http://luaforge.net/projects/stdlib). In general, a POSIX system is assumed; there are likely to be unwitting dependencies on GNU extensions.


## [repeat](repeat) (Perl)

Repeat a command a certain number of times.


## [retcode](retcode) (sh)

Run a command and print its return code.


## [rep](rep) (Perl)

Perform a regex search and replace on the given files.


## [rerun](rerun) (bash)

Run a command with a modified environment. Works with commands found on the `PATH`, and with session managers (when your session is restarted, the command will be run again with its modified environment). Useful for running programs with `LD_PRELOAD`.


## [prepend](prepend) (Perl)

Prepends standard input to the given files.


## [softwrap](softwrap) (Lua) and [hardwrap](hardwrap) (sh)

Soft and hard wrap text. `hardwrap` just uses `fold`.


## [sig](sig) (Perl)

A signature-with-random-tagline generator: it appends a random line from `~/.taglines` to `~/.signature`, formats the result nicely and prints it on standard output.


## [lp2](lp2) (Perl)

Print files two-sided on a one sided printer by printing the even and then the odd pages. It's set up to work sensibly on my printer (straight paper path, pages come out face down). It works with any file type that CUPS can print.


## [findcore](findcore) (sh)

Find core dumps (finds core dumps with a PID suffix, and `vgcore` files generated by Valgrind).


## [thumbify](thumbify) (Perl)

*Needs Image::ExifTool*

Add EXIF thumbnails to images. In practice, this seems to mean JPEGs and PNGs.
